# Solar phenomena
> 2019.05.12 [🚀](../../index/index.md) [despace](index.md) → [EF](ef.md)  
> *Navigation:*  
> **[FAQ](faq.md)**【**[SCS](scs.md)**·КК, **[SC (OE+SGM)](sc.md)**·КА】**[CON](contact.md)·[Pers](person.md)**·Контакт, **[Ctrl](control.md)**·Упр., **[Doc](doc.md)**·Док., **[Drawing](drawing.md)**·Чертёж, **[EF](ef.md)**·ВВФ, **[Error](error.md)**·Ошибки, **[Event](event.md)**·Событ., **[FS](fs.md)**·ТЭО, **[HF&E](hfe.md)**·Эрго., **[KT](kt.md)**·КТ, **[N&B](nnb.md)**·БНО, **[Project](project.md)**·Проект, **[QM](qm.md)**·БКНР, **[R&D](rnd.md)**·НИОКР, **[SI](si.md)**·СИ, **[Test](test.md)**·ЭО, **[TRL](trl.md)**·УГТ

**Table of contents:**

[TOC]

---
> <small>**Solar phenomena** — EN term. **Солнечная активность (СОА)** — RU analogue.</small>

**Solar phenomena** are the natural phenomena occurring within the magnetically heated outer atmospheres in the Sun. These phenomena take many forms, including solar wind, radio wave flux, energy bursts such as solar flares, coronal mass ejection or solar eruptions, coronal heating and sunspots.

As a result there is generation of [cosmic rays](ion_rad.md).

These phenomena are apparently generated by a helical dynamo near the center of the Sun’s mass that generates strong magnetic fields and a chaotic dynamo near the surface that generates smaller magnetic field fluctuations.

The total sum of all solar fluctuations is referred to as solar variation. The collective effect of all solar variations within the Sun’s gravitational field is referred to as space weather. A major weather component is the solar wind, a stream of plasma released from the Sun’s upper atmosphere. It is responsible for the aurora, natural light displays in the sky in the Arctic and Antarctic. Space weather disturbances can cause solar storms on Earth, disrupting communications, as well as geomagnetic storms in Earth’s magnetosphere and sudden ionospheric disturbances in the ionosphere. Variations in solar intensity also affect Earth’s climate. These variations can explain events such as ice ages and the Great Oxygenation Event, while the Sun’s future expansion into a red giant will likely end life on Earth.



## Docs & links
|*Sections & pages*|
|:-|
|**【[External factors (EF)](ef.md)】**<br> [Astro.object](aob.md)・ [Atmosphere](atmosphere.md)・ [Atmosphere of Earth](earth.md)・ [Cosmic rays](ion_rad.md)・ [EMI](emi.md)・ [Grav.waves](gravwave.md)・ [Ion.radiation](ion_rad.md)・ [Radio frequency](comms.md)・ [Solar phenomena](solar_ph.md)・ [Space debris](sdeb.md)・ [Standart conditions](sctp.md)・ [Time](time.md)・ [VA radiation belts](ion_rad.md)|

   1. Docs: …
   1. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_phenomena>
